probate.registry@notifications.service.gov.ukTo: caveator@probate-test.comSubject: Application to stop grant of probate applicationDear Sir/Madam,We have received your request to stop a grant of representation on behalf of your client for the estate of Deceased_fn Deceased_ln.Your reference is: REF123 Your caveat reference number is: 1542274092932452 Your caveat expiry date is: EXPIRY_DATE_KEY The deceased's date of birth: 1st January 2017 The deceased’s date of death: 1st January 2018It is your responsibility to check that information you have given in regard to the deceased’s name, date of death and date of birth are correct. If any information is incorrect, you must report this to HMCTS immediately. If the information is not correct, this could result in your caveat not being applied#What happens nowWe will keep your caveat on record, and if it matches an application for a grant, we will stop the application. Your caveat will remain in place for 6 months unless it is challenged. You can renew the caveat for another 6 months from the month before it expires. You will need to pay another £3 fee and send to Leeds District Probate Registry. You should try and come to an agreement with the person applying for a grant if you can.#Can I change any details in the caveat after it is entered? Yes. You can do this at any time – but ideally, before any warning is issued or probate action is started. (These terms are explained later)You should send an email to contactprobate@justice.gov.uk or write to HMCTS Probate, PO Box 12625, Harlow, CM20 9QE where your application was lodged and confirm any changes, as soon as you realise you need to change anything quoting your caveat reference number.#Can I cancel the caveat?Yes. You can do this, before any warning is issued or probate action is started. You may be able to amend after any warning is issued or probate action is started but you need to contact us for advice. (These terms are explained later)You should send an email to contactprobate@justice.gov.uk headed 'Caveat Withdraw' or write to HMCTS Probate, PO Box 12625, Harlow, CM20 9QE where your application was lodged and confirm any changes, as soon as you realise you need to change anything quoting your caveat reference number.#What may happen nextIf you are unable to resolve things with the person applying for probate, they may give you a ‘warning’.You will have 14 days to respond to the warning (including weekends and bank holidays). You will need to give your reason for stopping the application for a grant.You may want to talk to a solicitor or contact Citizens Advice (https://www.citizensadvice.org.uk/) to get information about how to respond to a warning.The probate registry won’t be able to give you legal advice.Depending on your circumstances there are 2 options:Enter an ‘appearance’You could enter an ‘appearance’ if you believe you have a more legitimate right to apply for the grant than the person applying. For example, you may have good reason to believe that the will is not valid.If there is no will and you are entitled to inherit, you may believe you have a prior right to apply for the grant.You will need to complete an ‘appearance form’. If the appearance is accepted by the probate registry then the caveat will become permanent. This means that legal proceedings will be needed to resolve things.There is no fee for entering an appearance.The form needs to be sent to: Leeds District Probate Registry, York House, York Place, Leeds LS1 2BAIssue a ‘summons’You could issue a ‘summons’ if you believe you are equally entitled to apply for the grant as the person whose application you have stopped. This may be because you want to apply yourself, or believe there are good reasons the grant should not be issued to the person applying.You will need to complete a summons form and a sworn statement of facts setting out your reasons. If the summons is accepted by the probate registry, the registrar may give directions to you and the person whose application you have stopped.There is no fee for issuing a summons.The form needs to be sent to: Leeds District Probate Registry, York House, York Place, Leeds LS1 2BAHowever, there is a chance that a hearing may be needed.Whichever option you take, you may have to pay legal costs if you stop an application without a good reason.If you do nothing, the person who gave you the warning can apply to have your caveat removed after 14 days.You can get both appearance and summons forms from any probate registry, but probate staff cannot help you complete them or give you legal advice.Further information can be obtained via: https://www.gov.uk/wills-probate-inheritance/stopping-a-grant-of-representation#If you need to contact us You can call Leeds District Probate Registry on 0113 389 6133Regards,The Probate Registry